Requirements
*HCI Practice (Usability Skills) Requirement
*“Apply for Funding” Requirement & its benefits
*Communications Requirement (min. 2 talks)
*Teaching Requirement (2 TAships)
*Coursework- how to plan your studies
*Thesis proposal and defense of a dissertation
No exams, minors, foreign language, etc.

HCI Practice / Usability Skills
Need to demonstrate you know something about HCI practice (core usability) by:
Taking full 05-610 UCRE class
TAing 05-610 UCRE
TAing 05-630 PUI (Programming Usable Interfaces)
TAing 05-631 SUI (Software Structures for User Interfaces)
Usability is core HCI practice, so having an HCI degree you’d    be expected to know it (e.g., for ugrad HCI course)

Apply for funding
Apply for a fellowship, help with grant-writing
Benefits:  
Provides practice in seeking funds. It is not necessary to actually receive the funds.  
Requires you to learn how to succinctly and clearly describe your research goals. 
If you do get the funding or an award, great for your CV and expands your reputation & network.
If you receive a significant fellowship/scholarship, SCS adds a “bonus” to your stipend.
It could help your Advisor and the department

Communications Requirement
Need to demonstrate competency in presenting research 
At end of first and second years you’ll give a research talk on your work, open to all members of the Institute/SCS
This is our subtle little nudge in starting you on research from day one

Communications Requirement
Full faculty attends and evaluates 
Talk expected to meet expectations
Standards are high
Talks by current students are tomorrow & Wednesday (and on Oct 4)

Teaching Requirement
Two TAships for specific courses
Hope to get you at least one substantive teaching assignment (i.e., more actual teaching)
TAships are assigned to you and must be established / approved in advance
-We try to take preferences into account & not assign TAships for which you don’t have skills
-But need to cover certain courses, esp. required MHCI / BHCI
-Teaching support / mentorship within HCII and at Eberly Center

Rationale
Pretty obvious if you are going into academia
For industry: you still absolutely need the organizational and communications skills required by teaching

Course Requirements 
Designed to be highly individualized
Best education for you
Must take equivalent of  9 grad level courses (course = 9+ units)
You can take more!  (probably should, probably will) 
Typically take 2 courses per term
Must get our permission to take more than 2 this first semester; better to take just 1 or 2.  
Courses can be completed in 2 ½ years (w/o overload)
But prerequisites, scheduling, and other factors may extend that period
Four-One-One system most common but lots of room for flexibility

Coursework (Four-One-One System)
HCI Process & Theory (this fall)
Four required breadth “minis” (½ semester 6 unit courses) 
CS, Design, Social, Cognitive (Please take these your first two years) Social (05-772) & Computer Science (05-773) will be taught in Spring 2025
Four courses in your primary area of concentration
Behavioral, CS, or Design 
One course in each of the other areas
Detailed info about course requirements in the PhD Handbook (and 
the Orientation folder!). List of courses that have been approved for requirements can be found here

Some Details on Courses
Transfer credits
9 course residency requirement 
Can transfer in courses to remove requirements, 	but still have the same total number of courses
Prerequisites
Things considered prerequisites don’t count towards the 9 courses
Specifically: 
Some intro design courses Intro programming courses
Ask us about recommendations…

But I Don’t Have an Advisor to Approve My Courses…
… So, What Courses do I Take Right Now?
Geoff is officially your academic advisor until you find one; Queenie is your university-listed advisor
Both can help you with your decision this semester
Ask advice of prospective advisors
Also talk to existing students 
They probably know the most about what is being offered

Dissertation Committee
Declaration of Committee Members
Committee = advisor +  3 faculty members
Three must be 3 HCI members
Must be drawn from at least two different sub-disciplines
One member must be “external”
Outside HCI field, or in field but outside CMU
Generally recommend outside CMU
Role of committee members
Proposal and defense judged by your committee
Written and oral presentation of each

Dissertation
Original research
Significant & novel
preferably change the world, at least a little bit
another characterization: when you are done, you should be the world’s leading authority in something
Doable (and not too much risk)- scoping your research agenda

All are fuzzy criteria 
Your advisor will help you understand what makes a good / acceptable / not acceptable topic
Other faculty, including committee members, can help too
Let’s move around
Family traditions, How do you spend your free time? What book or movie left a lasting impression on you?
Evaluation (How do you/we tell if you are doing a good job?)

Coursework
Normal system of grades (A+, A, A-, B+, B, B-....)
C+ is failing (only courses with B- or above can be counted towards required courses) 
Courses that do not give letter grades (e.g.,  give “S” for satisfactory or “N” for not satisfactory) cannot count towards required courses. 
Many courses are offered under both graduate and undergraduate course numbers. Register under the graduate level course number

Courses are not the center of evaluation anymore
You are smart folks; we expect you to do well in courses
However, some funding sources require maintenance of specific QPA (e.g., 3.5 or above for ARCs)
You can ace your courses and still not do well! 
Evaluation covers all of your work to date, especially your research work
Once you have completed your required courses (equivalent to 9 full semester courses), you want to take extra courses.  If the Instructor allows, you can opt to “audit” these or take them pass/fail

Research
Direct supervision and advice from your advisor working on real research projects
Pretty much the same metrics as your advisor
Publishing is good
As a first-order metric “publishable work” or “leads to publishable work” is not a bad guide (but it’s not everything)
(Eventually) building a reputation in the field
HCI Process & Theory course will contain a lot about how to do and evaluate research

Student evaluations
You write a summary report of what you did
Your advisor presents what you did to a meeting of the full HCII faculty, and we discuss it
A short letter is drafted evaluating your progress
If the first sentence contains “satisfactory progress” you are doing ok (or better), but if it also says “concern”, then not so much 
The letter is really just a placeholder for discussion with your advisor.  
These evaluations are sometimes as much about evaluating the advisor as the student

Questions?
All requirements covered in “the handbook”
2024-25 version will be updated and shared at the beginning of the fall semester (most info in last year’s version is up-to-date)

Guiding Principles
Quality First
Research from day one
Contribute to a positive, respectful HCII community 
“The Meta-Rule”

The Meta-Rule
“No rule is so important in and of itself that it should stand in the way of a student getting the best education”
We can, will, and do bend and break the rules when it really serves a student’s best interests
Doesn’t necessarily establish precedent (just because we did it for one does not imply all)

